# 0. The Internet

## What is the internet and how does it work?
Data is stored in a data center. In the data center your information and files are stored in a solid state device in a server. Every device connected to the internet has an IP address , which uniquly indentifies your device. In the internet an IP address acts as a shipping address through all information reaches its destination. You a are able to see which IP adress your ISP (Internet Service Provider) has given your device. 

The server in the data center also has an IP address the server stores a website so you can access many websites just by knowing the IP address. It is difficult for a person to remember each IP address so we use domain names to simplify it and allow them to access a website, since there are many websites on a server all websites cannot be accessed by just using the IP address so in that case we additional pieces of information such as host headers are used to identify websites. In other cases such as mega websites like Google and Facebook the whole server is dedicated to that website.

### Summary
- You enter the domain name.
- The browser sends a request to the DNS server to get the coresponding IP address.
- After getting the IP address your browser fowards the request to the data center (server).
- Once the server gets a request to acess a perticular website the data flow starts. 
- The data is transferred in digital format, specificly light paulses that travell trough the cabel in tough terrain such as oceans and hills and mountains.
- These cables connect to your router and once there the router converts the light signals into electrical signals.
- If you are acessesing internet through cellular data the cables will pass though the cell phone tower, and the signals will reach your phone in the phone of magnetic waves.

<br>

## What is HTTP?
It stands for hyper text transfer protocol and allows communication between web servers and clients via HTTP Requests / Responses. For example Loading pages, form submit, Ajax calls.

Every request is completely independednt and similar to transactions, it does not remember or save anything from previous requests. Programming, Local Storage, Cookies, Sessions are used to create enhanced user experiences. HTTP (Hyper Text Transfer Protocal Secure) encrepts data sent and recieved by requests using SSL or TLS. We use HTTPS to send requests that involves data such as a request on a banking app.

We use HTTP methods to transact with the server, we mostly use: <br>`GET - Retrieve data from the server.`<br> `POST - Submit data to the serve.`<br> `PUT - Update data already on the server.`<br> `DELETE - Delete data from the server.`

With each request and response we have HTTP Header Fields, which are: <br>`General - Request URL, Request method, Status Code, Remote Address, Referrer Policy.`<br> `Response - Server, Set-Cookie, Content-Type, Content-Length, Date.`<br> `Request - Cookies, Accept-xxx, Content-Type, Content-Length, Authorization, User-Agent, Referrer.`<br>

HTTP Status codes help us understand what happens during the request, we use: <br>`1xx - Request recieved / processing.`<br> `2xx - Sucessfully recieved, understood and accepted.`<br> `3xx - Futher action must be taken / redirect.`<br> `4xx - Request does not have what it needs.`<br> `5xx - Server failed to fulfil an apparent valid request.`

<br>

## Browsers and how they work

<br>

## DNS and how it works
To access the internet we always use domain names instead of IP address, now where does the internet get the IP address corresponding with our domain name request? For this purpose the internet uses a phone book called the DNS, for an example if you know the persons name but you do not know their number you use a phone book, the DNS works the same way. Your ISP or other organisations manage the DNS.

<br>

## What is domain name?
A domain name is the address to your website, the internet is like a vast map full of avenues and street and turns your website website is like your house. In order for someone to find your house the'll need your adress which is your domain name.
 
<br>

## What is hosting?
Web hosting is a service to rent space on the internet where you save all your media and go live with your website. You need your website to be hosted on a server, hosting is different than buying a domain name, a domain name secures your adress on the web however hosting is the pysical presence of your webpage.