# 1. HTML

## Basics
<a href="https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/responsive-web-design/basic-html-and-html5/">Learn Basic HTML For Free</a>

<br>

## Semantic
HTML is always evolving, and in HTML5 there is new tags that allows us to structure our content and make the browser understand it.

`<main> - For the main content of a webpage, unique to that page.` <br>
`<section> - Defines a certain section of a webpage (e.g. blog list, contact info)` <br>
`<article> - Defines a bit of content which makes up an article (e.g. a blog post)` <br>
`<aside> - Defines some content related to something else (e.g. similar blogs)` <br>
`<header> - For the header of a website (contains the nav, title, titlem etc.)` <br>
`<footer> - For the footer of a website`

<br>

## Forms and validations
We use web forms to capture user information in the browser, for example a users login details or a message. Input elements are a convenient way to get input from your user. You can create a text input like this: `<input type="text">`, note that input elements are self-closing.

Placeholder text is what is displayed in your input element before your user has inputted anything. You can create placeholder text like so: `<input type="text" placeholder="this is placeholder text">`

You can build web forms that actually submit data to a server using nothing more than pure HTML. You can do this by specifying an action on your form element. For example: `<form action="/url-where-you-want-to-submit-form-data"></form>`

Let's add a submit button to your form. Clicking this button will send the data from your form to the URL you specified with your form's action attribute. Here's an example submit button: `<button type="submit">this button submits the form</button>`

You can require specific form fields so that your user will not be able to submit your form until he or she has filled them out. For example, if you wanted to make a text input field required, you can just add the attribute required within your input element, like this: `<input type="text" required>`

<br>

## SEO Basics & Acessibility
<a href="https://html.com/seo/">Learn The SEO Basics & Acessibility</a>

<br>

## Best Practices
<a href="https://medium.com/swlh/10-best-practices-for-html-542fb923b93">Learn The Best HTML Practices Here</a>





