# OS and General Knowledge

## Terminal Usage
### The `ls` command.
- You can check witch path you are in with the `pwd` command.

- You use the `ls` command to list the folders in the directory.

- With `ls` you have the `ls -a` option that shows all the files, even hidden ones.

- For more information about each folder use the `ls -l` command.

<br>

### The `mkdir` command.
- The `mkdir` creates a folder in the directory you are in.

<br>

### The `cd` command.
- The `cd` command allows us to enter into a specific directory.

- To go back one level in your directory you use the `cd ..` command.

- To go to the absolute root of your system use `cd /`.

- To go to the home you use `cd`.

<br>

### The `touch` command.
- To create a file you use the `touch` command for example `touch file1.text`.

<br>

### The `mv` command.
- To change the name of a file we use the `mv` command, for example `mv file1.txt file2.txt`.

<br>

### The `cp` command.
- To copy files we use the `cp` command. For example `cp file.txt file1.txt`.

<br>

### The `rm` command.
- To delete files we use the `rm` command. For example `rm text1.txt` or to delete folders `rmdir text.txt`.

<br>

### The `which` command.
- Shows you where a file is located and output its directory. For example `which mongod` output: `files/folder/mongod`. 

<br>

### The `history` command.
- Shows your las 500 commands, use `history`.

<br>

### The `sudo` command.
- This command gives us the permission to run commands as the root user. For example `sudo apt-get install nameOfPackage`. 

- To remove packages use `sudo apt-get remove`. 

- To update use `sudo apt-get update`.

<br>

## How OS's work in general
Computers today are a mixture of different hardware and software but there is one programm that brings them all together that is the OS (Operating System). In the past computers could handle 5000 complex calculations per second which is not even a fraction of what they can do today.

In the past programms where written on punch cards (paper cards with holes), these were fed into the CPU one at a time. There was a problem with this system, different computers resources such as ram or printers used different programms (punchcards) and they would offen be confused about which punch card to use as they would often be mixed up.

The solution to this problem was the OS which would take over the tasks common to many programms. Today the OS is responsible for common taks, controlling the hardware, managing and alocating resources as well as providing a interface for the user.

It is one of the first programms to run when a computer is turned on. Most programms start the same way, the computer issues lines of code as commands to prepare all the important elements like the screen and the network. The OS holds collections of all the common commands and segments them in a library where regular programs can borrow codes.

<br>

## Process Management
A process is a program that is executing, like our internet browser or text editor. A program is an application we can run such as chrome, we can have many processes of the same program running at the same time (i.e opening multiple tabs in Chrome). 

When we want to run our programms we have to dedicate computer resources to them like RAM and CPU however we only have a finite number of resources. Our kernal has to manage our resources effenciently so that all the programms we want to use can run, our kernal doesnt dedicate all the resources to just one process. Our system is constantly running multiple processes that are necessary for it to function.

The CPU executes multiple processes at once by using a time slice, a time slice is a very short interval of time that gets allocated to process for CPU execution. It is so short that you don't even notice it the CPU executes one process in mili seconds.

If your computer is running slowly then one process could be taking up more time-slices than it should, another possibility is that there is too much CPU processes and your computer cant keep up. The Kernal creates processes efficiently schedules them and manages how processes are terminated, this is import since it we need a way to collect all the preciously used resources that active processes where taking up and realocate them to another process.

<br>

## Threads and Concurrency
Inside our CPU we have a specific number of cores, back in the old days we had a CPU with only one core by today we have CPU's with 3 core, 4 cores ect. The amount of cores you have on your processor is the amount of things that can happen at the exact same time, for example if we have 4 cores that means at any most we can do 4 operations at the exact same time this is called parallelism (a parallel operation).

A thread is one programm or one set of operation that needs to happen, every thread will be assigned to one core. It determines how to run many operations on one CPU core. Threading does not envolve running on multiple cores all it invloves is creating some programm that will be executing in a difference sequence than another thing. We are changing the orders in which we do specific operations because sometimes a thread hangs, therefore we will execute other thread this is called cuncurrent programming not doing things in parallel but doing things in differnt timing sequences.