# Version Control System

## Basic Knowledge
### What is Git?
- Git is a free and open souce version control system. Github is a website where you host your projects and work in groups.

### What is Version Control?
 - The management of changes to documents, computer programs, large web sites, and other collections of information.

### Repository
- In the programming world, a repository (repo) is the project or the folder or place where your project is kept.

## Git Commands
- `clone` - Bring a repo that is hosted somewhere like Github into a folder on your local machine.
- `add` - Track your files and changes in Git.
-  `commit` Save your files in Git.
- `push` - Upload Git commits to a remote repo like Github
- `pull` - Download changes from the remote repo to your local machine, the opposite of push.
- `status` - Shows all the files that have been updated, created or deleted and not saved.

## How To Use Git
### Working With A Cloned Repo
1. Clone a repo.
2. Edit, delete or update the files.
3. Use `git status` to check which changes where not staged.
4. Use `git add .` to add these changes to stage changes.
5. Use `git commit -m "Message" -m "Comment"` to commit these changes locally.
6. Use `git push origin branchName` to push your changes remotely.

### Working With A Repo Created Locally
1. Create a new folder.
2. Use `git init` to initialze Git in the folder.
3. From here you can use `git status`, `git add .` and `git commit -m "Message" -m "Comment"`.
4. Create a empty repo on github, then use the SSH link to reference your repo locally.
5. Reference your remote depository by using `git remote add origin paste-The-SSH-Link-Here`.
6. Now you can use `git push origin branchName` to push your changes locally.

## Git Branching
Branching allows us to have multiple brances where we commit and push our changes. Changes made in a specific branch stay there and do not affect each other. This allows you to test code and debug without letting a main branch to be affected, we can create new branches to debug code and merge it back to our main branch with fixes.

### Swiching and creating branches
- Use `git branch` to check how many branches you have and which one you are in will be indicated by *.
- Use `git checkout -b branchName0` to create an new brance and switch into it. You can use `git checkout branchName1` to switch into another branch.
- Make sure you use `git push -u origin branchName` to set upstream so that this will be the default branch you push changes to. When you care in said branch just use `git push`.

### Making a pull request
- Go to the <a href="https://github.com">Github Website</a> and create a pull request between the branch and the master branch. Merge the branches if the changes are good if you have the auth to do so. If you do not have the auth then wait for feedback or resolve comments first.

### Pull your changes locally
- Use `git pull` if you have set the upstream. If not then use `git pull origin masterBranch` to pull the changes.

### Delete a branch
- Once you are done using a branch you can delete is by using `git branch -d branchName here` you must *NOT* be in this branch when deleting.

## Merge Conflicts
When many people are working on different branches and master is getting updated from multiple places now Github does not know which code to keep or change
